Melbourne University Availability System
========================================

Outline
--------

The source code to the Melbourne University Availability System. Which can be
found at [here](http://smart.studentit.unimelb.edu.au). The purpose of the site
is to show students where there are available computers around the campus.
Through AJAX calls the front end pages would update every 30 seconds.

External analytics were not applied to any of the pages so that the site would
be easily accesible behind the university proxy.

The site connects to an audit trail and searches for the availability of
computers it has in its internal database.

The internal database is populated through an 'installation script' that reads a
csv file containing a list of the names of all the computers it should look for
in the audit trail.

Notable files
-------------

- index.php is the main interface, its purpose is to be viewed by students around
campus on their mobiles. It was made to be responsive through media queries and
elastic design which was novel at the time.

- landscape.php is a secondary interface, it is made for landscape oriented
monitors placed around campus. The software behind the monitors used IE7, so it
was minimally styled.

- lcd.php is another secondary interface, it is made for portrait oriented
monitors placed around campus. As with the landscape version the software
monitors used IE7, so it was minimally styled.

- locations.php is a simple HTML/XML interface that was called by the front end
interfaces through AJAX calls.

History
-------

This site has undergone a few changes since its first iteration. The first
inlcuded the availability of short-term laptop loans through the library. When
this scheme was discontinued, changes were made to the front end to reflect
this. The site received a facelift when the university decided to rebrand
Student IT's web pages.

The original commit to the original git repository seems to have been made at
Mon Mar 7 20:18:27 2011 +1100. As I am now posting the source code on GitHub,
I've removed 'sensitive' information from the source.

This was a project that I did over the winter break because I worked for the
student facing IT support attached to the libraries. At the time there was
feedback from students that they wanted an app or a mobile site on their new
iPhones that would do this functionality. There were rumours that the main
Melbourne University IT support were going to work on this, but it didn't
eventuate.

My immediate boss and I found out that the University had an audit trail to
track the usage of the computers around campus. I noted how this data could be
co-opted into an availability system. My boss was enthusiastic when I suggested
that we create this Availability system ourselves.

We managed to convince the central IT people to give us access to the audit
trail and I wrote prototype in python. The powers at be were sufficiently
impressed that they asked that the site be rewritten in PHP.

I rewrote the site in PHP and after more wrangling, it was hosted centrally by
the university. Contrary to what the posters put up around the university later
suggested, unfortunately it wasn't really through student feedback but mostly by
accident that this site was made.
